# Responsible-AI-Moderation Model 

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Set Configuration Variables](#set-configuration-variables)
- [Running the Application](#running-the-application)
- [License](#license)
- [Contact](#contact)
  
## Introduction
The **Moderation Model** module acts as a central hub for machine learning models for prompt injection, toxicity, jailbreak, restricted topic, custom theme and refusal checks. It provides the endpoints to utilize the response generated by these models.

## Features
The **Moderation Model** module acts as a wrapper for the traditional AI models we are using for various checks like prompt injection, jailbreak, toxicity etc. 

## Installation
To run the application, first we need to install Python and the necessary packages:

1. Install Python (version >= 3.9) from the [official website](https://www.python.org/downloads/) and ensure it is added to your system PATH.

2. Clone the repository : responsible-ai-mm-flask:
    ```sh
    git clone <repository-url>
    ```

3. Navigate to the `responsible-ai-mm-flask` directory:
    ```sh
    cd responsible-ai-mm-flask
    ```

4. Create a virtual environment:
    ```sh
    python -m venv venv
    ```

5. Activate the virtual environment:
    - On Windows:
        ```sh
        .\venv\Scripts\activate
         ```

6. Go to the `requirements` directory where the `requirement.txt` file is present and install the requirements:
    ```sh
    pip install -r requirement.txt
    ```

## Set Configuration Variables
After installing all the required packages, configure the variables necessary to run the APIs.

1. Navigate to the `src` directory:
    ```sh
    cd ..
    ```

2. Locate the `.env` file, which contains keys like the following:

  ```sh
  workers=1
  WORKERS="${workers}"
  # DB_NAME="${dbname}"
  # DB_USERNAME="${username}"
  # DB_PWD="${password}"
  # DB_IP="${ipaddress}"
  # DB_PORT="${port}"
  # MONGO_PATH="mongodb://${DB_USERNAME}:${DB_PWD}@${DB_IP}:${DB_PORT}/"
  # MONGO_PATH= "mongodb://localhost:27017/"
  ```

3. Replace the placeholders with your actual values.

## Running the Application
Once we have completed all the aforementioned steps, we can start the service.

1. Navigate to the `src` directory:

2. Run `main.py` file:
    ```sh
    python main.py
     ```

3. Open the following URL in your browser:
   [http://localhost:8000/rai/v1/raimoderationmodels/docs](http://localhost:8000/rai/v1/raimoderationmodels/docs)

For API calls, please refer to the [API Document Moderation Model](https://infosys.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/IF/pages/207815356/Responsible+AI+-+Tools)
  
## License
The source code for the project is licensed under the MIT license, which you can find in the [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt) file.

## Contact
If you have more questions or need further insights please feel free to connect with us @ ResponsibleAI@infosys.com



